# Introduction

## 1. Create a full-stack website

- It is a really exciting time to be a JavaScript developer. In the old days, companies used to need separate developers to work on their front end, their back end, their mobile apps, their databases, et cetera since all of those required experience with different types of programming and different programming languages.
- But all of this has changed now. JavaScript can now be used to develop each of these platforms, meaning that one JavaScript developer can now create something that used to take an entire team. In this course, I'm going to show you how to create and deploy a full stack react powered blog website from scratch with user authentication.
- We'll start off by using React to create an interactive front end for our site, and then move on to writing a node JS server with Express tied in with MongoDB. After that, we're going to see how to add basic user authentication to our app, using a very helpful tool called Firebase Off and then we'll close out by seeing how to host this entire full stack site that we've built on Google Cloud and access it from anywhere. I'm Shaun Wassell and I'm a senior JavaScript and React developer and educator. Join me in my LinkedIn learning course to learn how to build a full stack react powered blog site from scratch.

## 2. What you should know

- To get the most out of this course there are a few things that it would be helpful for you to know ahead of time. The first is that it would be helpful for you to have a basic knowledge of JavaScript and ideally, some experience with more modern JavaScript syntax such as ES6 and above. Now, if you're not already comfortable with JavaScript, it's not hard to learn.
- Just check out some of the courses on it in our library and come back here when you're done or if you're feeling brave, feel free to just jump into this course anyway. Now it would also be helpful for you to have some basic experience with command line operations and all we're really going to be using for this course are basic commands like make directory to make directories CD to change directories and LS to see the contents of a directory.
- So this is more just a nice to have that may come in handy for you. And finally, since many developers find that the React library does have a bit of a learning curve, it would be helpful for you to have some experience with the basics of React, although you should be able to at least follow along with this course even if you don't have any React experience yet.
- Oh, and one last thing, I highly recommend that you follow along with me as I write code or if you want to jump around a little bit, the beginning and end states for all the code that I write in this course are in the exercise files for your reference. So basically this course is for intermediate level developers who are looking to build their first full stack application with all the modern JavaScript technologies. If you happen to fit that description and I think if you've made it this far then you do, then this course is definitely for you.

## 3. Installing Node.js and NPM

- All right, so before we get started, let's install the tools necessary for this course. Now Node.Js is going to be a really important tool for running our code and installing a few libraries that we'll be using to make our programming easier.
- So, if you don't already have Node.Js installed, you can download the installer from Node.Js's website, which is nodejs.org, and what you're going to want to do probably is download the long term support version, which is the LTS version over here. The version that you see might be a little different from the version that I see, but whatever this is over here, you're going to want to download that.
- And once you've downloaded that, you're just going to need to run the installer and Node.Js should walk you through the rest. So once you've done all of that, just to make sure you've set up everything correctly, you're going to want to open up a terminal.
- And I'm using the builtin terminal in Visual Studio Code, which is the IDE that I'm going to be using in this course if you're interested in using it, as well. And what you're going to need to do in order to check to make sure that Node.Js and NPM are installed correctly is just run node -v and that will show you the current version of Node.Js that you're using.
- And you're also going to want to run npm -v and hit enter, and that will show you the current version of NPM that you're using. Now, I am using the current version, which is not the long term support version currently, but I wanted to use a later version just to make sure that this course was relevant for as long as possible. So anyway, as long as you can run those commands and you see a version that's at least somewhat similar to the ones that I have here, you should be good to go.

## 4. Project introduction

- All right, so as I stated in the intro to this course, what we're going to be doing here is building a full stack blog application. And this is going to involve several pages such as the homepage and the about page. And we're also going to learn how to do things like load articles and display them. And then we're going to see how to allow users to up vote our articles by clicking an up vote button and add comments to our articles by using the add comment form that we'll build. 
- And of course, we're going to be seeing how to let users log in and out of our application so that we can keep track of who users are when they add comments, and make sure that users can only add a certain number of up votes to each of our articles. So that's what we're going to be building in this course. So without further ado, let's jump right in and start building the front end in React.
